{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Rockwell;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "file://localhost/Users/dean/Documents/Projects/ATS/Publications/ATS%20to%20the%20Rescue/Reference%20Aliases/Constructed%20Wetlands%20for%20Wastewater%20Treatment.pdf%20alias"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\fs32 \cf0 Constructed Wetlands for Wastewater Treatment\
\
}}\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs32 \cf0 \{Vymazal, 2010, #45132\}\
\
Review\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\i \cf0 Phragmites australis
\i0 . Common reed. Invasive in US and NZ.\

\i Scirpus lacustris
\i0 .\

\i Typha
\i0  sp. Cattail.\

\i Scirpus
\i0  spp. Bulrush.\

\i Sagittaria latifolia
\i0 . Arrowhead.\

\i Bolboschoemus fluviatilis
\i0 . Marsh clubrush.\

\i Eleocharis sphacelata
\i0 . Tall spikerush.\

\i Scirpus tubernaemontani
\i0 . Soft-stem bulrush.\

\i Eichhornia crassipes
\i0 . Water hyacinth.\

\i Ceratophyllum demersum
\i0 . Coontail.\

\i Najas guadalupensis
\i0 . Souther naiad.\

\i Potamogeton pectinatus
\i0 . Sago pondweed.\

\i Hydrocharis morsus-ranae
\i0 . Frog\'92s bit.\

\i Myriophyllum spicatum
\i0 . European watermil.foil.\

\i Elodea canadensis
\i0 . Common waterweed.\

\i Vallisneria americana
\i0 . Eel-grass.\
\
(Veenstra, 1998) for IJssel Lake Polder FWS: 0.4m deep, total area 1 ha, and its follow-on, (de Jong, 1976).\
\
Lake Balaton system (Lakatos, 1998). 10 ha, 8000 m^3 d^-1 of mechanically treated wastewater.\
\
(Odum, 1985) for coastal lagoons. (Odum, et al 1977), (Ewel and Odum, 1984).\
\
Houghton Lake project (Kadlec et al, 1975), (Kadlec and Tilton, 1979).\
\
Mandan Refinery (Litchfield, 1989).\
\
California (Chan et al. 1982).\
\
Thousands of others: (Wieder, 1989), (Kadlec and Knight, 1996), (Kadlec 2003), Vymazal et al., 2006).\
\
Shallow water depth, low flow velocity, shallow water, producing plug flow. (Reed et al. 1988).\
\
Land-intensive.\
\
Inolvement of periphyton and benthic algae. (Kadlec et al. 2000), (QDNR, 2000).\
\
Higher pH favors ammonia loss (?)\
\
Could remove N by harvesting, but amount would be low (Vymazal, 2007).\
\
Phosphorus removal slow.\
\
Their table 2. Start accumulating a database: Name, Wastewater type, Wetland Type, Location, Surface area, Flow rate, pollutant removal rates.\
\
Dense plant cover restricting O diffusion (in order to compare with what happens in ATS) - (Rai and Munshi, 1979), (Reddy, 1981).\
\
HF CWL called Reed Beds in UK due to frequent use of 
\i Phragmites australis
\i0 . \
\
Removal of N and P by plant harvesting in CWL is inefficient, suggesting low inherent productivity. Addition of precipitants/absorbants is needed - how long can this go on before CWL needs to be rehabilitated?\
\
Relationship between oxygenation and nitrification.\
\
VF CWs need 1-3 m^2 PE^-1 vs 5-10 for HF (PE: population equivalent). VF has more operational costs due to pumps and timers. And other electromechanical equipment. What does this mean in terms of volumetric flow rate? And in terms of concentration in the influent.\
\
Can work out LHFL and areal loading only indirectly. Perhaps convert ATS functionality into PE.}