{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Rockwell;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx9355\ri-725\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs32 \cf0 Here we find that a 100 year project to expand algal cultivation to completely recycle global agricultural N and P excesses would, which complete, require gross expenses no greater than $2.3 \'d7 10\super 12\nosupersub  yr\super -1\nosupersub , and commitment of  less than 1.9 \'d7 10\super 7\nosupersub  ha (4.6 \'d7 10\super 7\nosupersub  ac) of land, 0.38% of the 4.9 \'d7 10\super 9\nosupersub  ha used globally to grow food. This gross spending amounts to 3.0% of the 2016 world gross domestic product of $7.6 \'d7 10\super 13\nosupersub . Thus the financial burden to achieve this environmental benefit appears tractable in terms of both expense and land use. This upper limit assumes conservative economic parameters (high CapEx and OpEx), problem conditions (continued excess nutrient application at today\'92s rate), and problem solution (in effect, a return to pre-industrial conditions of global freshwater drainage). In reality, the economics may not be as extreme as our worst case assumptions, may be more moderate when averaged globally, and may improve with increased experience and innovation. Improvements to agricultural practices may reduce the scale of the problem, and such an extreme solution may not be necessary. Thus it is likely that our worst case upper limit on the required effort, already apparently tractable, can be greatly reduced through improved analysis and experience. Furthermore, we model gross expense without considering the economic and agronomic effects of the copious algal biomass produced as a consequence of nutrient recycling, which may offset expenses by providing a valuable commodity, reduce the scale of the problem by improving soils, and potentially even slow or reverse the loss of arable land. Because our proposed intervention is also tightly coupled to the carbon cycle, we extrapolate our model to include recycling of net anthropogenic carbon, finding that the solution to this problem requires an order of magnitude greater investment. Again, our conservative assumptions imply the possibility of considerably smaller effort being required, especially of humanity substantially reduces combustion of fossil fuels.}