{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Rockwell;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5042\ri-716\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs32 \cf0 With expanded algae cultivation, global recycling of N and P pollution arising from agricultural fertilizer and manure application is technically feasible, requiring large, but tractable capital and operational investment, and providing major additional rewards by improving the global ecological situation. The primary difficulties are not technological, but rather are likely to be sociopolitical, with pluralities ever reluctant to pay collectively to address affronts for which they are collectively responsible, and economic, as such a large injection of biomass into trade in various commodities is likely to stimulate resistance from organizations with a vested interest in the status quo. Bounties for C, N, and P are one way to pay for establishment and operation of the algal cultivation network, and further ecological benefits may additionally compensate for the unprofitability of algal biomass. If biofuels manufactured from nonspecific algal biomass become profitable, subsidies can be reduced or eliminated. One of the best uses for uncontaminated biomass is likely to return it to local land as an amendment and fertilizer. This biomass sink is likely very deep, able to accept biomass for centuries. Additionally, improvements to soil via biomass application could maintain high productivity with less fertilizer, reducing nutrient excesses and thus reducing the algal cultivation area needed for nutrient recycling. Expansion of algal cultivation will not likely be the only future effort to reduce anthropogenic ecological stresses, so the most expensive scenarios presented here may seem exaggerated. However, even with excess N and P accounted for, there may be a need for further expansion of algal cultivation. If net anthropogenic CO\sub 2\nosupersub  is brought to zero by the time algal N and P recycling is complete, additional efforts will still be required to return to a lower concentration. The oceans will be the only source of input water for this further expansion.}