{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Rockwell;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx9356\ri-1239\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs32 \cf0 Recycling all continental N and P excesses will directly reverse transgressions of Steffen et al.\'92s (2015) N and P biogeochemical planetary boundaries, while also directly impeding transgressions of the ocean acidification and climate change boundaries. An order of magnitude greater effort is required to recycle net anthropogenic carbon. As harvested, the biomass is mostly water and high in ash, so its end use or initial processing should occur near the production site to reduce transportation impacts. Thus for optimum nutrient recycling, algal cultivation must be widely distributed throughout all compromised basins, creating a global network of many small economic centers. However, the ecological and economic effects are not all direct. Steffen et al. (2015) depict eight of their planetary boundaries interacting via a ninth, biosphere integrity (Figure 5A), implying indirect connections between each boundary and the others. Our proposed intervention introduces additional direct connections between biogeochemical cycling and the global warming and ocean acidification boundaries, bypassing biosphere integrity (Figure 5B). This complex of interactions obviously needs modeling attention \{Cuddington et al., 2013, #45847\}, but the implication is that our first-order analysis underestimates the benefits of recycling N and P via algal cultivation, and greatly underestimates the benefits of expanding to fully recycle C. A specific example of an indirect effect is fertilizer manufacture, estimated to represent 1% of total world manufacturing capacity. Assuming that 20% of applied fertilizer enters global watersheds but is recycled by ATS, comprehensive nutrient recycling would reduce the carbon footprint of fertilizer manufacture by a similar amount. This effect will be further increased if the algal biomass, acting not only as a fertilizer but as a soil amendment, improves soil vitality so that lower fertilizer application rates are required to begin with. However, for our modeling of these interactions we simply assign weak, medium, or strong interactions and carry out one step of the computation. We emulate Steffen et al.\'92s (2015) radial bar plot, which is effective at conveying major differences in planetary boundary status (Figure 5C, D), but for depicting smaller changes such as those engendered by our secondary effects analysis, we also include stacked area charts (Figure 5E, F) which also convey a sense of the time. Consider a scenario in which most of the algal biomass is returned to soils as a soil amendment/fertilizer. What is the size of such a sink? Lal (2015) estimates that [todo]#t of soil organic carbon (SOC), a measure of soil vitality, has been lost from our agricultural lands, rendering up to half of their original extent still fertile. Simply returning that carbon to those soils in the form of algal biomass would require [todo]#yr of total algal production. This figure is potentially an underestimate, as much of the added carbon will be fairly rapidly volatilized by decomposition; if a third of it, on average, remains sequestered as it is incorporated into soils, the time scale of this sink would extend by a factor of three. However consider that an increment of carbon added to fully degraded land. Even a small amount of added carbon might restore sufficient soil vitality that that land begins to recruit new ecosystems without further intervention, sequestering further carbon thereby and perhaps even making up for or superseding the losses to the atmosphere as the algal biomass decomposes.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\ri-718\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 Using algal cultivation to reverse transgressions of the N and P boundaries will also sequester nearly ten percent of anthropogenic net carbon, thus simultaneously and directly impeding transgressions of the climate change and ocean acidification boundaries. \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx9356\ri-1239\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 Need to emphasize the utter simplistic nature of the model.\
\
\pard\tx715\tx6484\ri-718\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 However, nutrient recycling alone would directly sequester only ~10% [#ref] of net carbon annually, and only if the fixed carbon were simply stored permanently. However, second-order effects would offset additional carbon, including the carbon released in fertilizer extraction, production, and transport. Converting biomass to biofuel might appear to offset equivalent amounts of fossil fuel, but the net offset could be less than simply storing the biomass. Amending degraded soils with algal biomass could initiate recruitment of long-term successional communities, eventually sequestering multiples of the increment of carbon initially applied. Additional ATS capacity installed along coastlines or in offshore complexes would further increase carbon sequestration and directly clean oceanwater.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\ri-718\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 assume that transgression of the stratospheric ozone boundary has been halted \{Pawson et al., 2014, #61165\}.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi353\ri-720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 Because Biogeochemical cycling is represented monolithically in Steffen et al\'92s figure but is composed of both N and P cycling, we assign moderate strength to each interaction rather than high strength. \
\
To reflect our assumption that changes in the status of one boundary affect but do not dominate the status of another, we chose values such that the sum of coefficients reflecting interactions affecting Biosphere integrity does not exceed 1/3. We further assume that a weak interaction is approximately an order of magnitude less than a strong interaction, so the interaction strength declines by a factor of 3 from strong to moderate and another factor of 3 from moderate to weak. These values reflect the extent of additional advance towards, or retreat from, transgression of one boundary caused by advance towards, or retreat from, transgression of another. In the original report, eight of the boundaries interact directly only with the ninth, Biosphere integrity. As this is a bidirectional interaction,indirect effects among boundary statuses arise through the effect of the total change in biosphere integrity status caused by changes in status of the other eight boundaries.\
}