{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Rockwell;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx9355\ri-725\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs32 \cf0 The CapEx required to recycle excess global agricultural nutrients is similar to that required to build a continental road transportation network. We assume that OpEx for algae cultivation will be greater than for roads, as roads are designed to mostly be left alone whereas ATS\'99 units require weekly attention. We do expect automation to increase the number of hectares a single operator can manage, perhaps eventually approaching the 5-7 people needed per thousand hectares (2-3 people per thousand acres) as seen in high performance agriculture. At [todo]# \'d7 10\super 7\nosupersub  ha this high level of efficiency would account for [todo]# \'d7 5 \'d7 10\super 4\nosupersub  skilled jobs worldwide once a complete network is built out and operating at something approaching a steady state. To handle carbon, expanding algal cultivation by an order of magnitude, marine construction will be required, as all continental sources of N and P will already be spoken for, leaving the oceans as the only source of aquatic macro nutrients. Near shore marine construction is substantially more expensive than on-shore construction, and floating islands are likely to be even more expensive on an areal basis, both for CapEx and OpEx.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\ri-720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 We thus assume that a 1 ha ATS facility can be built for $1M. One person-day is required for harvesting; with a five-day workweek and weekly harvesting, one person can thus operate 5 ha of ATS. Harvesting and biomass handling are skilled tasks, thus an operator might command a salary of $50,000. We adopt the current floway lifetime assumption of 20 years, and a ratio of OpEx to CapEx of 10%. Our better-case scenario assumes lower CapEx and OpEx, and a 40-year floway lifetime, anticipating that with experience, improvements will be made to floway engineering, and that not all locations will require the same level of investment. For additional thoughts on ATS CapEx and OpEx, see \{Yun et al., 2015, #44995\}.}