{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Rockwell;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5042\ri-716\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs32 \cf0 It is no surprise that the highest priority basins for N and P recycling are also the major highly productive agricultural basins. These basins are among the largest in surface area, and can thus be expected to be responsible for the majority of nutrient flows. This situation is compounded by the fact that agriculture is a low-margin enterprise. To maintain economic viability a farm must provide as much product per hectare as possible annually, often ignoring long-term considerations such as soil health if they impose unaffordable expenses. Increasing fertilizer application beyond the amount considered ecologically healthy increases production, but substantial quantities of this extra fertilizer are not retained in the soil and eventually percolate into drainage. Large basins that would already have high priority due to their size become even more important as their impact is multiplied by the economics of nutrient application. The question of which nutrient is limiting in a given basin is of importance when removal of either nutrient is expensive and the goal is to treat as little polluted water as possible in order to achieve the most improvement with limited funds. However, algal cultivation simultaneously removes both nutrients, although design and operational flexibility provides the ability to favor one nutrient over the other. Thus for our analysis, we assume that the limiting nutrient is recycled within the algal cultivation facility in order to remove the excess non-limiting nutrient, so it is the non-limiting nutrient that defines the total algal cultivation area needed. To avoid a bias in favor of one nutrient or the other, we prioritize grid cells and basins by combining N and P excesses into a single value (Fig. 2C, D).}