{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Rockwell;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5042\ri-716\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs32 \cf0 The scale of our proposed intervention prompts concerns about environmental impacts. For example, algal biomass that concentrate toxins found in polluted water may itself be classified as toxic waste, requiring additional processing to render it suitable for further applications. Biofuel production could remove up to half of the biomass as carbon, doubling the concentration of toxins in the residue and reducing landfill volumes and transportation costs compared to the original biomass. An effective testing program will be essential to ensure that compromised biomass receives proper treatment. As landfilling is the default fate of the biomass for current production units, uses that both generate revenue and lower residue volume can improve the economics. Another possible impact is emissions from floways. Obviously net oxygen will be released, but many marine algae also emit dimethyl sulfide (DMS) \{Charlson et al., 1987, #54604\}, a volatile organosulfur compound known to impact climate by nucleating clouds over the oceans. To date, no studies of DMS emission from ATS\'99 floways, marine or fresh, have been performed. Increased cloud cover could increase Earth\'92s albedo, slowing global warming, but could also potentially negatively impact crop and photovoltaic productivity. Other environmental impacts that merit consideration relate to the extent of algal cultivation area required. While algal floways are efficient at non-point nutrient removal on an areal basis, they will nevertheless require conversion of land from current uses to algae cultivation. Where feasible, non-agricultural land, brownfields, or even building roofs might be candidates for conversion, but where agriculture is most concentrated, existing crop production would have to be traded for algae production, requiring careful cost-benefit analysis. Wading birds are frequently observed in production floways, browsing on productivity inhibiting invertebrate algal grazers and adding additional nutrients to the water. This phenomenon and likely various others will recur and expand along with expanded algal cultivation. While not comprehensive, these examples represent questions that will need to be answered as algae cultivation expands from the few hectares now in production to the tens of millions of hectares and more needed.}