{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Rockwell;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx715\tx6484\ri-718\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs32 \cf0 We assign rates of change to the status of the planetary boundaries either by extrapolating existing trends, with ocean acidification and climate change proportional to atmospheric CO\sub 2\nosupersub  concentration, and the remainder, except stratospheric ozone depletion, linked to estimated population (Table 3). The status of stratospheric ozone depletion is assumed to remain constant. Our initial levels for the planetary boundary statuses correspond to those in Steffen et al., 2015. We add direct strong linkage between biogeochemical cycling and climate change/ocean acidification and quantify interaction strengths, assigning 0.10 to strong interactions, 0.033 (0.10/3) to medium interactions, and 0.011 (0.10/9) to weak interactions (Fig. 5A). A change in one planetary boundary status imposes a proportional change so that if the status of one boundary (as quantified by its control variable) changes by 
\i x%
\i0 , the status of the boundary it affects changes by its own extrapolated amount plus the interaction strength times 
\i x%
\i0 . To compute the status of boundary 
\i i
\i0  after a time interval 
\i (S\sub i\super t\nosupersub )
\i0 , we first sum the original status of the boundary 
\i (S\sub i\super o\nosupersub )
\i0  and the product of that status, the interval, and its rate of change (eq. 1) (Fig. 5B, C). \

\i 	S\sub i\super t\nosupersub  = S\sub i\super o\nosupersub  + r\sub i\nosupersub  
\i0 \'d7
\i  t 
\i0 \'d7 
\i S\sub i\super o
\i0 \nosupersub 	(1)\
To determine the direct effect of a change in boundary status 
\i S\sub a
\i0 \nosupersub  on status 
\i S\sub b
\i0 \nosupersub , we first obtain the proportional difference between the predicted and original statuses of 
\i S\sub a\nosupersub .\sub \
\nosupersub 	\uc0\u8706 S\sub a\nosupersub  = (S\sub a\super t\nosupersub  - S\sub a\super o\nosupersub )
\i0  / 
\i S\sub a\super o
\i0 \nosupersub 	(2)
\i \

\i0 We then multiply 
\i \uc0\u8706 S\sub a
\i0 \nosupersub  by the interaction strength between it and the boundary it affects, 
\i I\sub ab
\i0 \nosupersub , and multiply this result by the change in 
\i S\sub b
\i0 \nosupersub to determine the additional increment required.\

\i 	inc\sub b\super ab\nosupersub  = \uc0\u8706 S\sub a\nosupersub  \'d7 I\sub ab\nosupersub  \'d7\sub  \nosupersub (S\sub b\super t\nosupersub  - S\sub b\super o\nosupersub )
\i0 	(3)\
Where multiple boundaries affect a single boundary (
\i i.e.
\i0  biosphere integrity), we sum its original 
\i S\sub i\super t
\i0 \nosupersub  and the increments thus obtained to obtain the status after taking all direct effects into account.\
	
\i S\sub i\super dir\nosupersub  = Si\super t\nosupersub  + \uc0\u8721  inc\sub i
\i0 \nosupersub 	(4)\
\pard\tx715\tx6484\ri-714\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 To determine the secondary effects of changes in boundary status arising from linkage via biosphere integrity, we re-apply the above procedure to determine the additional effects of biogeochemical cycling on ocean acidification/climate change on biosphere integrity, and again to determine the effects of the final value of biosphere integrity on the other boundaries. Note that values for control variables representing the status of ocean acidification and land system change are reported in Steffen et al., 2015 as percentages, with decreasing values indicating advance towards boundary transgression. This is the opposite of the sense of our formulas, with increasing values indicating advance towards boundary transgression, so these values are subtracted from 1 in the R code.}