{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Rockwell;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5042\ri-716\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs32 \cf0 An ATS facility is characterized by a shallow, inclined (0.5-2% slope) exposed surface (the floway) (Fig. 1A), either roughened or lined with a high surface-area mesh to provide a growth substratum. A wave- or pulse-generator directs influent into the floway along its upper contour (Fig. 1A,B), producing a shallow (2-5 cm (0.7 - 2 in) deep) flow coursing downslope. Cells of diverse algal taxa, ubiquitous in surface waters, adhere to the substratum and rapidly propagate, maturing into a community of attached filaments and trapped cells (Fig. 1B, C). Cell growth fixes N, P, C, and other nutrients into biomass, removing them from the influent. Weekly to biweekly harvest, as with a manicured lawn, removes the majority of the biomass, staging the remnant algal cells for another production cycle. Continuous operation ensures perpetual sampling of the influent for new algal species and strains, increasing the facility\'92s biodiversity, productivity, and predictability over time \{Adey et al., 2013, #773\}. Pulsing imposes turbulent flow, increasing light penetration and mixing, allowing even dilute nutrient sources to support high productivity \{Adey and Steneck, 1985, #91961\}. Photosynthesis drives the buffer system to high pH via CO\sub 2\nosupersub  and HCO\sub 3\super -\nosupersub  uptake, and supersaturates the effluent with O\sub 2\nosupersub . If present, heavy metal ions are incorporated into the biomass, and many toxic organic molecules are removed or detoxified \{Adey et al., 1996, #59863\}. Many algae are mixotrophic, allowing them to additionally fix organic C originating from manure application or sewage treatment, expanding the practice\'92s treatment portfolio.}