{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Rockwell;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx715\tx6484\ri-718\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs32 \cf0 The rate of C fixation by algal biomass from global nutrient recycling would be nearly ten percent of the 2017 rate of atmospheric anthropogenic C increase, an interaction providing direct beneficial effect not depicted in Steffen et al., 2015. Additionally, during photosynthesis, the treated water will have a pH higher than the source water, thus counteracting acidification effects local to discharge of the cleaned water. We add these interactions to their conceptual model (Figure 6) and estimate the outcome of doing nothing, recycling N and P (with and without our added interactions) and recyclingWe extrapolate, both with and without our additional interactions, the planetary boundary impacts over 50, 100, and 200 years for four cases: doing nothing, and intervening with our worse, median, and better case assumptions (Figure 5). By definition, the status of biogeochemical cycling reaches the safest level in fifty years. The net indirect effect of the interaction of boundaries via biosphere integrity is a small [todo] improvement in status than would otherwise have been the case. The net additional effect of our intervention on the status of the other boundaries, is that they are either unaffected (stratospheric ozone depletion), or additionally improved (Table 5).\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\ri-720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 The analysis of interactions between planetary boundaries in Steffen et al \{Steffen et al., 2015, #78923\} is limited to direct interactions between biosphere integrity and the remaining boundaries, including a reflexive interaction upon itself. Interactions among the other boundaries are thus indirect via Biosphere integrity. Additionally, of their two measures of Biosphere integrity, one is not yet quantifiable, nor are their measures of Novel entities or Atmospheric aerosol loading. Their analysis provides a global perspective, but there is no reason that much of their approach cannot be applied at smaller scales anywhere on the planet. Expanding algal photosynthesis impacts many factors that directly contribute to biosphere integrity via both extinction rates and biodiversity intactness, as well as indirect contributions between other boundaries via interlinked improvements to Biogeochemical cycling, Climate change, Ocean acidification, and possibly Atmospheric aerosol loading, by potentially releasing dimethyl sulfide, a chemical species that evolves into sulfate particles known to induce cloud nucleation. By applying and measuring these contributions to the challenge of improving the status of the directly affected boundaries (Biogeochemical cycling, CO2-based Climate change, Ocean acidification) at smaller scales, we can begin to understand and model the mechanics and interactions which improve the status of the indirectly affected boundaries as well.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\ri-727\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 In our model, reversing Biogeochemical cycling transgressions directly impedes transgression of Climate change and Ocean acidification boundaries due to the obligate sequestration of C as N and P are sequestered. Complete reversal of biogeochemical cycling boundaries via algal photosynthesis could sequester up to ~16% of net anthropogenic carbon, approximately half of the maximal 1/3 influence we ascribe to the combined effects of multiple boundary status changes on another boundary. We thus assign a moderate interaction strength to each of the N and P cycles, unidirectional from biogeochemical cycles towards Climate change and Ocean acidification. These interactions are not bidirectional, as while sequestering nutrients also sequesters carbon, reducing carbon does not necessarily have a substantial direct effect on nutrient cycling. Expanded algal primary production may increase atmospheric loading of cloud nucleation particles via release of dimethyl sulfide \{Charlson et al., 1987, #54604\}, potentially increasing Earth\'92s albedo and impeding transgression of the Climate change boundary. However, as Atmospheric aerosol loading is unquantified, we cannot computationally establish a causal linkage between this boundary and Climate change nor between our intervention and this boundary.}