{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Rockwell;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\ri-714\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs32 \cf0 Because we approximate the effort needed to globally recycle pollutants, rather than create a detailed simulation, we chose a round number (100 years) for our project duration, and a simple algorithm for spending: exponential growth starting at a defined spending rate and ending at a level that satisfies the pollutant recycling rate. This approach to financing and schedule is rudimentary, but the large scale of our proposed intervention makes it practically impossible to incorporate all the various financing, permitting, and sociopolitical situations affecting jurisdictions of interest. Both the technology and the magnitude of our proposed intervention are similar to highway construction, supporting its tractability. Highway costs per unit area are similar to ATS floway costs \{FHWA, 2015, #85081; FHWA, 2015, #84398\}, and the global extent of paved roads is much greater than the floway area we require. Our linear model relating latitude to productivity ignores climatic differences along latitude lines, and can only be corrected by a comprehensive set of pilot studies, both to elucidate basin-by-basin differences in productivity, and to more completely define the design parameters that maximize it. Our ultimate spending rate is a substantial percentage of the world gross domestic product \{The\'a0World\'a0Bank, 2017, #21801\}, suggesting that the commodity flow of algal biomass will affect markets for other commodities, potentially prompting resistance from affected parties, but we do not address these impacts. The basin component of our analysis focuses on 405 curated major watersheds. A more comprehensive analysis would consider the remaining basins, but visual inspection of Figure 2 suggests that our prioritization would be little changed, especially regarding the basins with the greatest excesses. Figures 2 also reveals patterns of lacunae (for example an approximately Arizona-shaped void in western North America) suggesting that the nutrient data is also incomplete. However, even if formally incomplete, the coverage is nevertheless sufficiently extensive that our main conclusions would likely be little changed with more complete data.}