{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Rockwell;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\ri-720\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs32 \cf0 Ultimately, the effort required to recycle agricultural nutrients depends on the biomass productivity of algal cultivation. Recent experiments have demonstrated greater than twofold improvement in ATS biomass productivity using three-dimensional growth substrata rather than the usual two-dimensional screens \{Adey et al., 2013, #773\}. To understand this higher productivity it may be worth considering the importance of surface topography at multiple scales, starting with the molecular. Surfaces can catalyze chemical reactions by spatially organizing a population of reactant molecules according to a geometry that favors the desired reaction. The plasma membranes of prokaryotic cells similarly surface-organize macromolecules and macromolecular complexes, facilitating rapid and highly organized reaction throughput on both sides of the surface and across the membrane. Eukaryotic cells further exploit the capabilities of surface organization via their varied and extended intercellular network of nuclear, Golgi, mitochondrial, chloroplast, and vacuolar membranes. The microstructure of plant and animal organs and macrostructure of forest canopies are further iterations of this theme of surfaces optimizing performance, at ever larger scales. Providing a suitable three-dimensional surface for algal colonization and growth similarly organizes algal cells to take better advantage of the nutrients and illumination than available from two-dimensional surfaces. Three-dimensional substrata provide more surface area for colonization, and with the proper topography maintain or extend the turbulent mixing that breaks through the laminar flow boundary layer of the algal filaments and provides changing currents that oscillate the filaments back and forth, allowing light to penetrate deeper into the turf. Additionally, the denser turf provides a matrix that traps algal cells that would otherwise slough off of the floway. All of these effects contribute to more than double the productivity expected from the 2-dimensional substrata originally employed. A major question here is how close to theoretical maximum primary productivity can optimization of growth substratum provide; the higher this number, the lower the total surface area is required to achieve a target nutrient removal rate.}