{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Rockwell;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx9356\ri-1239\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs32 \cf0 Mention viruses in the demise of algal blooms, see Johannesson et al for references.\
\
Iron treatment may be definitively useful with seashore systems if there are any near-shore iron deserts.\
\
Would require educational resources. How many community college classes? How many initial teachers.\
\
[how to consider bacterial-algal interactions]\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 Steffen et al utilize a radial stacked bar chart to summarize the status of planetary boundaries, with the height of the bar indicating the zonal level at which the the boundary is set. Placing the bottom of each bar at zero produces a visually awkward display, so they introduce a hole, placing the baseline for each bar at a constant radius. The levels of each bar are colored from a palette with green colors indicating that the levels are within the safe operating space, yellow colors indicating a transition into unsafe operation, and red indicating unsafe operations. This is not a standard plot available within most programs, so we reverse-engineer it. See the function \
\
To calculate the effect of carbon reduction on OA before feedback analysis, for each interval we calculate via the linear rate as with the no-change scenario and subtract the proportion of net carbon removed during that 50-year period \
\
We are keeping Ozone depletion constant, but should we calculate? Perhaps all the intermediate values need their own tables here. It is \'93affected\'94 after all by the feedback.\
\
Formula derivation 	\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f1 \cf0 \uc0\u937 
\f0 arag example referring to the Boundaries worksheet and calculating levels meaningful to the chart creation routine. \
\
delta	0.1	=G9-F9\
min.implied	0.6	=F9-(G9-F9)\
max.implied	0.9	=G9+(G9-F9)\
ht	0.05	=H9-B33\
reduced	10	=B35*$B$41/(B34-B33)\
explicit	10	=(H9-(F9-(G9-F9)))*$B$41/((G9+(G9-F9))-(F9-(G9-F9)))\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\ri-717\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 To estimate areal productivity of constructed treatment wetland (CTW) \{Environmental\'a0Protection\'a0Agency, 1993, #32863; Verhoeven and Meuleman, 1999, #34608; Kivaisi, 2001, #28974; Vymazal, 2002, #33530; Day et al., 2004, #79665; Halverson, 2004, #58045; Keller and Knight, 2004, #5792; Siracusa and La, 2006, #50155; Babatunde et al., 2008, #37397; Brisson and Chazarenc, 2009, #13438; Hoffmann et al., 2011, #95223; Labella et al., 2015, #41532; Mitsch et al., 2015, #95957; Vergeles et al., 2015, #75643; Yu et al., 2015, #82497; Zapater-Pereyra et al., 2015, #11644; Zhang et al., 2015, #93587\} and floating wetland (FW) \{Wang and Sample, 2014, #10440; Winston et al., 2013, #66703\} nutrient removal, we mined numerous papers on the subject papers and converted from the stated nutrient removal rates to their equivalent Mg ha\super -1\nosupersub  yr\super -1\nosupersub .}