{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Rockwell;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5042\ri-716\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs32 \cf0 Two complementary approaches for implementing  our proposed intervention are available. As problems caused by excess nutrients become more frequent or severe, afflicted jurisdictions might increasingly undertake local implementation of ATS, as has already occurred in several locations (Table 1). The availability of bounties for nutrients might encourage private concerns to participate, or local taxes might be used to directly subsidize implementation, considering nutrient recycling to be a public good. If a market for algal biomass can be developed, revenue from that market can help offset expenses. In some basins, perhaps most, this natural economic growth in algae cultivation might be sufficient to contribute substantially to basin remediation. For basins with the greatest excess nutrient loads (Table 2), a more organized approach may be essential to ensure that each increment of investment achieves the highest nutrient removal rate, as the floway area needed can be such a large proportion of the basin area. The current global ecological situation derives from centuries of increasing human impact on ecosystem services; centuries of increasing countermeasures may be required to completely reverse the damage, with our proposed 100-year project but one component. It may thus be prudent to start with projects at a scale affording early and definitive measures of success. Initially, only local effects will be easily discernible, so focusing much of the initial investment on a few high priority basins or sub-basins might deliver verifiable improvements rapidly and visibly. Beyond water and biomass quality measurements, initial measures of success could include reduction in the frequency, duration, and extent of HABs within affected waters, improved health of reef and other ecologies in the estuaries and bays receiving the discharge, and improved agricultural metrics where algal biomass is applied to the soil.}