{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Rockwell;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5042\ri-716\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs32 \cf0 To rank river basins by priority, each value from the nutrient data sets was assigned to a basin based on its coordinates. Basin-specific values were summed for each nutrient. To obtain a ranking score for each basin, we added constants to its N and P sums to avoid non-positive numbers, and took the square root of the product of these sums. Color palettes were chosen to emphasize in warm tones the grid cells and basins responsible for half the total combined nutrient excess. To determine the algal productivity for a given grid cell, we applied a linear productivity model created by assigning maximum productivity, 9.1 
\f1 \'d7
\f0  10\super 1\nosupersub  t ha\super -1\nosupersub  yr\super -1\nosupersub  (3.4 
\f1 \'d7
\f0  10\super 1\nosupersub  ton ac\super -1\nosupersub  yr\super -1\nosupersub ) to 0\'b0 latitude and intermediate productivity, 5.5 
\f1 \'d7
\f0  10\super 1\nosupersub  t ha\super -1\nosupersub  yr\super -1\nosupersub  (2.0 
\f1 \'d7
\f0  10\super 1\nosupersub  ton ac\super -1\nosupersub  yr\super -1\nosupersub ) to \'b140\'b0 latitude (Figure 3), to the trapezoidal area implied by each grid cell\'92s latitude. To determine the algal cultivation area needed for nutrient recycling in each grid cell we determined the quantity of biomass needed to recycle the non-limiting nutrient for that grid cell and divided it by the productivity. To determine the algal cultivation area required for each basin we summed the areas required for each grid cell contained within that basin. To determine global mean algal productivity we divided the total biomass production rate by the total area required.}