{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Rockwell;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5042\ri-716\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs32 \cf0 Nutrient data \{Potter et al., 2010, #43603\} are organized on a 0.5\'92 \'d7 0.5\'92 grid of latitude and longitude, with 9,318,244 total cells, 698,788 with N values (Fig. 2A) and 927,186 P values (Fig. 2B), the values representing kilograms of nutrient excess per cell. All grid cells with N values also have P values. Excess N per grid cell ranges from 3.9 \'d7 10\super -6\nosupersub  kg to 2.8 \'d7 10\super 6\nosupersub  kg (mean 7.1 \'d7 10\super 4\nosupersub  kg). Excess P per cell ranges from 
\f1 \uc0\u8722 
\f0 1.8 \'d7 10\super 5\nosupersub  kg to 5.8 \'d7 10\super 5\nosupersub  kg, (mean 8.8 \'d7 10\super 3\nosupersub  kg), with negative numbers indicating a P deficit (Figure A1) \{West et al., 2014, #62583\}. Half of the excess N and P is accounted for by 6.8% and 7.0% of their respective values. These grid cells are colored using a gradient of cooler to warmer shades in Figures 2A and B. The 405 major basins provided by the Global Runoff Data Center are responsible for 77% of global nutrient excess, for both N and P (Table A1). Excess N per basin ranges from 0 to 5.1 \'d7 10\super 9\nosupersub  kg yr\super -1\nosupersub  (mean 9.5 \'d7 10\super 7\nosupersub ) kg yr\super -1\nosupersub  and excess P per basin ranges from 
\f1 \uc0\u8722 
\f0 6.8 \'d7 10\super 7\nosupersub  kg yr\super -1\nosupersub  to 1.0 \'d7 10\super 9\nosupersub  kg yr\super -1\nosupersub  (mean 1.6 \'d7 10\super 7\nosupersub  kg yr\super -1\nosupersub ). Half of the nutrient excess is contributed by only five (N) or six (P) basins, while 90% is contributed by 52 (N) or 32 (P) basins (Table 3, A1). The Yangze contributes the most N (5.1 \'d7 10\super 9\nosupersub  kg yr\super -1\nosupersub ), while the Ganges contributes the most P (1.0 \'d7 10\super 9\nosupersub  kg yr\super -1\nosupersub ) (Table 3, A1). To rank grid cells, we combine N and P values into a single value (Fig 2C). Summing these values basin-by-basin provides a metric for prioritizing basins (Fig. 2D, Table 2, Table A1).}