{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Rockwell;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "file://localhost/Users/dean/Documents/Projects/ATS/Publications/ATS%20to%20the%20Rescue/Reference%20Aliases/Eutrophication%20and%20harmful%20algal%20blooms-%20A%20scientific%20consensus.pdf%20alias"}}{\fldrslt 
\f0\fs32 \cf0 Eutrophication and harmful algal blooms- A scientific consensus}}
\f0\fs32 \
\
\{Heisler et al., 2008, #47951\}\
\
Paragraphs: The Threat;\
\
From the abstract:\
\
(1) Degraded water quality from increased nutrient pollution promotes the development and persistence of many HABs and is one of the reasons for their expansion in the U.S. and other nations;\
(2) The composition\'96not just the total quantity\'96of the nutrient pool impacts HABs;\
(3) High-biomass blooms must have exogenous nutrients to be sustained;\
(4) Both chronic and episodic nutrient delivery promote HAB development;\
(5) Recently developed tools and techniques are already improving the detection of some HABs, and emerging technologies are rapidly advancing toward operational status for the prediction of HABs and their toxins;\
(6) Experimental studies are critical to further the understanding about the role of nutrients in HABs expression, and will strengthen prediction and mitigation of HABs; and\
(7) Management of nutrient inputs to the watershed can lead to significant reduction in HABs.\
\
Note, this is USA biased, and is not intended to be a thorough review. However it is recent and is a decent summary.\
\
See perhaps Anderson, 1989; Smayda, 1990; Hallegraeff, 1993; Anderson et al., 2002; Glibert et al., 2005a or better yet some more recent review. GEOHAB, 2001, HARRNESS, 2005\
\
Species mentioned\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\i \cf0 Pseudo-nitzcschia
\i0  spp. - sedimentary record increases with increasing population in the GoM.
\i \
Prorocentrum sp.
\i0  - blooms have increased with population off Chinese coast
\i \
Karenia mikimotoi
\i0  - blooms have increased with population off Chinese coast\

\i K. veneficum
\i0  - blooms modeled in Chesepeake
\i \
Pseudonitzschia pseudodelicatissima
\i0  - stimulated by ammonia in Sequim Bay\

\i Prorocentrum minimum
\i0  - bloom in Chesapeake Bay following ag applications leading to urea in the water\

\i Phaeocystis
\i0  - bloom with increased N:Si
\i \
Pfiesteria piscicida
\i0  - associated with low inorganic N:P
\i \
Pfiesteria shumwayae
\i0  - associated with low inorganic N:P\

\i Karenia brevis
\i0  - associated with low inorganic N:P, regenerating blooms. Modeled in GoM.\

\i Karlodinium veneficum
\i0  - stimulated by growth of cryptophytes (prey?)\

\i Pseudo-nitzcschia australis
\i0  - domoic acid production enhanced by growing on urea. Also by copper or iron limitation, or very high copper.\

\i P. cuspidata 
\i0 - Most toxic when grown on nitrate.\

\i P. multiseries 
\i0 - Most toxic with iron or copper limitation or very high copper.\

\i Trichodesmium
\i0  blooms enhanced by iron deposition from dust, leading to indirect blooms in 
\i K. brevis
\i0 .\

\i P. minimum
\i0  - in Chesapeake Bay increasing over decades with N loading.\

\i Aureoumbra lagunensis
\i0  - regenerating blooms in Laguna Madre\

\i Synechococcus
\i0  - blooms from P injections\

\i Aureococcus anophagefferens
\i0  - mid-Atlantic brown tides, secondary to other algae stimulated by excess N that remineralizes.\

\i Alexandrium
\i0  spp. - modeled in the Gulf of Maine\

\i Alexandium lusitanicum
\i0  - loses toxicity after many years in culture.\

\i A. anophagefferens
\i0  - used in small-scale mesocosm modeling. Blooms in Long Island embayments\
\
Unpredictable episodic events can deliver pulses of nutrients that cause blooms. Unpredictable ones like storms are difficult to manage. Storms and climate variability affect timing of freshwater flow.\
\
Chesapeake: Spring nitrate introductions cause diatom blooms which die and sink, releasing N in summer supporing flagellates including dinoflagellates. Thus dose:yield models are inadequate.\
\
Brown tides - pelagophytes - able to uptake N, P, C from organic components\
Phagotrophs can be stimulated indirectly by pollutants causing a bloom in their prey.\
Nitrogen fixers can indirectly stimulate blooms by releasing dissolved N.\
\
= = = = =\
For #7:\
Eliminating raw sewage in Lake Washington: Edmondson, 1970, Lake Erie: Ashworth, 1986, Mumford Cove: Harlin, 1993, Chesapeake: Jaworski, 1990; Seto Inland Sea: Okaichi, 1997; Long Island Brown Tides decreasing: Gobler et al., 2005; Nuzzi and Waters, 2004; Gobler et al., 2005; Dzurica et al., 1989; Lomas et al., 1996; Berg et al., 1997, 2002; Mulholland et al., 2002, 2004; Gobler and San\'98udo-Wilhelmy, 2001; MacIntyre et al., 2004; Gobler et al., 2005; Chesapeake brown tides increasing: Trice et al., 2004; Glibert et al., 2007\
\
The idea that even long term storage and release of nutrients can be countered using ATS. The idea of using algal biomass to restore long-term habitat degradation that may be increasing blooms. Cloern, 2001. This is a landscape-level change that is thought to be, and probably is, necessary. We do prevention where possible, and mitigation where necessary. What is the iterative process we need?\
\
Sensors and predicting should help demonstrate the effects of ATS on a water body.\
\
Laboratory studies depend on maintaining cultures which may change over time, limiting their relevance. Also, in the wild, there many be many different strains, which may have quite different responses, such as ability or iniability to grow on a specific nutrient type, so studies drawing conclusions from a single species should be avoided.\
\
\'93trophodynamics\'94 \
\
Classic whole-lake studies in Canada: (Schindler, 1987, 2006). Smaller-scale mesocosm studies: (Glibert, 1998; Grane\'b4 li and Turner, 2002; Buskey et al.,2003; Vadstein et al., 2004). Ocean studies: (reviewed by de Baar et al., 2005).\
\
Examples of bloom reduction by decreasing nutrient inputs:\
Lake Washington: (Edmondson, 1970); Lake Erie: (Ashworth, 1986); Mumford Cove (Harlin, 1993); Potomac R.:(Jaworski, 1990); Seto Sea: (Okaichi, 1997); (reviewed by Imai et al., 2006). Long Island brown tides: (Gobler et al., 2005, (Nuzzi and Waters, 2004; Gobler et al., 2005).). Maryland (Trice et al., 2004; Glibert et al., 2007). What were the original concentrations, what were they reduced to, what are the predictions of lowered even more.\
\
Long time scales can be involved due to long-term storage of nutrients in sediment: see if there are any Conowingo Dam or other dam reports. Again, argues for use of ATS. If ecosystem dyanmics are altered (\'93permanently\'94), nutrient reduction alone may not be sufficient - fortunately we deliver oxygen as well, although loss of benthic habitat and alterations in food webs may need to be addressed as well.\
\
While prevention is preferable, where HABs exist, they must be eradicated\
\
The iterative nature of the management process.\
\
Number of blooms per year, timing of blooms, size of blooms.}