{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Rockwell;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5042\ri-716\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs32 \cf0 Typically, ATS operates in a single-pass mode, with influent traversing the floway once before returning to its source. Multiple passes may instead be performed, either with the effluent from one floway used as the influent for another, emulating a single longer floway, or by recirculating water through the same floway multiple times before discharge. A typical production-scale facility occupies ~1 ha, treating ~4.0 
\f1 \'d7
\f0  10\super 7\nosupersub  L d\super -1\nosupersub  (~1.1 
\f1 \'d7
\f0  10\super 7\nosupersub  gal d\super -1\nosupersub ), with larger volumes handled using multiple instances of a modular design. Single-pass mode requires less capital and operational expense (CapEx and OpEx) than more complex operational modes, but can usually accomplish only 5-15% removal of N and P, as carbon limitation, arising along the floway due to removal of this nutrient as it is incorporated into biomass during photosynthesis, reduces areal productivity and thus nutrient uptake. Introducing CO\sub 2\nosupersub  at intervals along the floway can reverse carbon limitation, increasing areal productivity and providing the capability to reduce nutrient loading to oligotrophic levels. Photosynthesis drives the buffer system towards its higher-pH, CO\sub 3\super 2-\nosupersub  dominated profile, upgrading the water beyond simply removing pollutants. Discharge of this higher pH water can potentially be an issue. However, the HCO\sub 3\super -\nosupersub /CO\sub 3\super 2-\nosupersub  buffer strength is inherently low, and in this case dilute with so much HCO\sub 3\super -\nosupersub  removed, so a final treatment step of mixing it with some untreated input water may be desirable in some circumstances. These considerations suggest design and operation options that can be optimized for specific situations. For N-limited basins, a subset of the floway area can be operated for P recovery by using relatively long floways (up to 300 m (980 ft)), driving the pH above 8.5 and chemically precipitating phosphate salts and producing high-P biomass. For P limited basins, there is no correspondingly simple operation to precipitate surplus N-containing salts. However, a subset of the floways can be operated for P precipitation, with the recovered P recycled into floways with surplus N.}